[MUSIC]
So far, we've been pretty
basic with our animation.
A little bit fast and loose, if I might
admit, in terms of how we've set it up.
We've been doing the quick and easy way,
but I wanna go deeper in this video,
and show you more about animation, so
that you truly understand what's going on.
And the first thing for us to look at and
remind ourselves of, is the relationship
between parent and child, and
let me just be super duper clear.
I'm gonna get one of my sprites.
I'm not using it at the moment.
You don't have to do this.
This is all for
illustration at the moment.
We have a star, and you can see
the star comes into our hierarchy.
To make it really clear,
I'm gonna rename this, Star = Parent.
This is at the parent level, and
I'm gonna change the color of it to red,
so we know what's going on there.
Now, I'm going to drag in another
star on top of the parent,
and that becomes a child.
We've done this a bunch of times, so
it should be really clear what's
going on here, Star_Child, okay.
And then, this one,
I will move a little bit.
You can see it starts off over on there.
If I reset the transform of the child,
then,
it's gonna be sitting right
on top of the parent.
But I move it a little bit to the side,
and we'll shrink it down a little bit,
cuz children are often a little
bit smaller than their parents.
Now, this is the parent,
and this is the child.
Let me show a couple of slides
just to make this really,
really clear what we're
talking about here.
So we have the parent, we have the child.
The parent,
its transform is relative to the world.
So for example, if it's at 0,0,
then it's at the world origin.
And the child,
the transform is relative to the parent.
So if it's 0-0,
it's centered on the parent.
We know this, we've done this before.
But just to remind us, this is
building to something, I promise you.
So if I put my transform here at zero and
zero,
you can see it's right down in the origin.
I'll just change my sprite renderer
to seven, so that it appears on top.
For both of these guys, just to if
we're playing around a bit there.
So it's right at the 0,0, whereas,
the child has a position of 0.04.
So put that at 0,0, okay.
It's at 0,0, they're both at 0,0.
If I move the child to the left, then,
it's going to be at the negative
2 away from the parents.
So a negative 2 units, to the left on the
x-axis, is negative from the parent, okay.
So that's what we're doing here,
changes made to the transform, at the
parent level will be applied to the child.
So you saw that I did
this with a transform.
I moved it, so
with the position within the transform.
So I move it, and, as I move the parent,
the child moves as well,
relative to the parent.
What happens if we change
the scale of the parent?
So while selected on parent,
if we increase the scale of the parent,
the child also increases, and
you can see the relationship between
the distance changes, as well.
It scales that whole relationship.
So it is now applying
a scaling of two point.
We'll make it easy.
We'll say three, three, three, and
three, the A Zed doesn't matter, but
we'll do that nonetheless, all right,
messed that up a little bit.
Okay, three, three, three, now it's
gonna be applying a scale of three
to this positioning of the child,
which is a position of minus two.
Now, changes made to the Child only
impact the child, so if I go and
change the scaling of the child,
it doesn't do anything to the parent.
I move it around independently.
Okay, we're building to something here,
I promise you.
How does it impact animation?
That's what we're building towards.
The animator placed at the parent level
can animate the renderers of Parent and
Children, whereas, the Animator
placed on the Child can only drive me
animations of the Child and
its Children, so I'd show you this here.
If I place an animator at the Parent
level, so Add Component animate tool.
This is what drives animations.
Then, it can see the child, and
the way that we're gonna do that, is,
we haven't done a lot of this, but we'll
do this in a little bit more detail her.
So if I click on the parent,
add an animate tool,
and now, I need, what,
an animated controller, so
we'll set ourselves up, just for
now, a little test folder in here.
I'll create a Create Folder Test, and
a little note to myself to delete, cuz
this is only for illustrative purposes.
And within here, we'll right
click Create Animator Controller,
and this will be ParentTest.
Okay, now, while clicking on the parent,
I drag over the ParentTest.
So it has an animator.
And remember, animator, sorry,
an animator controller.
Animator controller is what drives
all the various animations.
Now, what can we do in here?
You can see while clicked on our parent,
which is accessing our
parent test animator controller, we
have to begin animating the star parent.
Create an animation clip.
So this is another way for
us to create animations.
We haven't done it this way before.
We've done it a more drag and drop way,
but let's do it this slower way, so
we really clear and deliver it.
We'll click Create, it's gonna ask us
where we want to create our new animation.
So we'll call this just Animation 1,
we'll call it Test Animation 1,
just to be super clear that we're
getting rid of all this stuff.
And now you can see we have our
animation ready and raring.
And something that we haven't played
round with it yet here, is Add Property.
Now, when I click on Add Property,
it will show me all of
the things that I can Animate.
I have the transform, which is
referring to the parent's transform.
You see, if I open that up,
position scale rotation.
Let's just do something on there.
Click the plus button.
Now, if you're not
finding the plus button,
let me just open up one of these to
see if I can simulate this, okay.
If you're not finding the plus
button like I had the other day,
you might need to move
this little slidey bar.
At the moment, it all fits on my screen,
but depending upon your resolution,
sometimes, that plus button disappears,
which is a real pain.
But anyway, click on the plus.
Now, it lets us animate.
So it's gonna take the sprite.
From the sprite renderer, whatever
was our sprite that we had in there,
we're just going to place it at
the start and place it at the end.
That is the sprite.
We can go in there and
do what we did before.
So we can click on record,
we can move it midway,
we can move it down a little bit,
and then click off record.
So that's our animation, up and down.
Okay, very cool, up and down.
We can also add properties for the child.
So see here, how we've got the star child?
If we open that up, now,
we can see that we have a transform, and
we also have a sprite renderer.
The sprite renderer is
particularly important if we have
a sprite sheet with a whole
bunch of animations on it.
Would go into the sprite renderer,
scroll down.
This is the thing I was doing that before.
I need to, [SOUND], see that?
Man, I lost a lot of
time trying to find that.
Figure out why it wasn't working when
I double-clicked on it the other day.
But it's cuz the plus is there.
And then, we'll click on plus.
We'll get to that approach in a moment.
But for now,
we'll just play around with the transform.
So child transform.
Click on,
we'll use position as well for now.
Click on plus for that.
Now, we can independently animate
the parent and the child.
So if I open up child,
I can see my x, y's, add code.
So I can click Curves to
get these things curves.
But we'll just say as it's going up and
down, we will be clicked
on child a record.
I'll move the child a little bit
to the left, and then, unrecord,
and so, as it's moving, you can see
the child is going in and out to the left.
But the parent's going up and down.
But the child keeps
the parent's animation,
cuz the parent is moving up and down.
Therefore, everything below it is
going to be moving up and down.
Okay, let us do a, just very quickly,
do a slightly different approach,
I'm gonna duplicate my parent and child.
And I will remove the animator
from the parent, remove component.
I will add the animator to the child, so
here we have an animator on the child.
And now, I need to create myself
another Animated controller.
We'll call this child test.
I think you already know what's gonna go
on here, but I wanna be really clear.
If we drag the child test animator
controller into the animator, okay.
Now, that's great.
And while clicking on the child,
if we create an animation,
this will be test animation two.
Okay, test animation two, on the chart,
if we go to add property,
you can see we have a transform,
and we have a sprite renderer.
We don't have an option for
parent and chart.
All we are seeing is the child, so
just super quickly to illustrate that,
you know what I'll move these
guys a little bit out of the way.
They're currently sitting right on the top
of the things I duplicated it from.
So we will move these up to the top.
Just to be very clear, this is our
second pair we're working with here,
up to the top.
If I click on child,
add property, transform,
there is no other options deeper below.
Click on the plus, move it to there,
and do what we will, and just scale it.
Just to do something different,
scale and record.
Now, as I drag along, you can see it
gets bigger and stays big, as well.
And it's only animating the chart.
And then, the final thing I wanna show
you in here, is at the moment we have,
we'll take our first pair.
We have parent and child.
If I was to get rid of
this particular child, and
I will create a new empty game object,
I'll call this new child.
Congratulations, you have a baby.
So we have a new child and parent.
If I click on parent, and
I have my animator, when I go
to look within here, see first of all the
fact that I've deleted the previous child,
now, it's saying start child the one
that I had before that I've deleted.
Position missing,
it doesn't know what is going on.
So we have to right click and remove
properties, it's gone, cuz we deleted it.
Now, if I click on the Parent, and
go to Poperty, you can see that at
the parent level, we have Transform,
and we have the Sprite Renderer.
And in the Sprite Renderer, we can do a
bunch of things, we can change the color,
if we have multiple sprites from
a sprite sheet, we can add all of those.
When I look at the child,
I only see the transform.
That's because the child doesn't yet
have a, what?
It doesn't have a sprite renderer.
This is really important when it
comes to animating sprite sheets.
We need to have a sprite renderer,
so that when I drill into the,
sorry, when I add property and
drill into this.
So here is my new child.
Now, I can see a sprite rendere, and
I can do a whole bunch of stuff to that.
We can have the parents' animator,
render, something of the child, but
in this case, where we have the animator
on the animator on the child, we can
animate the render of the child, but we
can't animate the renderer of the parent.
It doesn't look upwards like that.
Okay, and one more thing I wanna
talk about is, and this is the main
reason that we're having this conversation
now, is we're gonna add a couple of
animation events, and we need to make
sure everything is lined up perfectly,
is that the animator can see methods at
the same level, not above, and not below.
So an animator placed here,
at the parent level, cannot use
an animation event to call a method
on a script here on the child level.
So for example, if we have, where are we?
We're gonna have to make some changes.
We'll have a look at our cactus.
The moment the cactus,
we have the defenders script on the upper
level of the cactus, and on the body,
we have the animator and
the sprite renderer, and the shooter and
a couple of other things.
So the animator can see our shooter
script, that's why we'll able to add or
we can't add animation events in there,
but we cannot
access anything that's on the defender's
script, for example, from our animator.
So the golden rule here, is I've led
you down a little bit of a slight side
alley that we're gonna fix up
operationally, is put all of your scripts
at the parent level, and
your animator at the parent level.
The most important thing is to have
the animator at the parent level,
cuz then you can drill down and
animate anything below.
But also, therefore, we need to have our
scripts at the parent level as well,
so that it can talk to the animator.
But if I was to go and
move that script, now,
from the body, so
if I was to remove that script from here,
remove component,
add it to the parent level shooter.
Now, when we go back to the animator,
don't worry about the fact that
those haven't been filled in yet.
We go back to the animator
on the body level.
We click on the animation,
which is on the animator.
Looking, it doesn't find fire,
it doesn't know where it is.
So therefore, we're up to a challenge
to recreate a couple of characters,
we created not quite perfectly.
For the lizard and the cactus, set them up
with a proper parent child relationship.
And at the moment, we have the Lizard.
It doesn't have a body on it,
so we're gonna create a body.
Put the sprite renderer of
the Lizard onto the body.
And then,
we'll need to recreate those animations.
And then, make sure the parent has all
the scripts, as well as the animator.
Make sure the child, or we'll call
it the body, has a renderer on it.
And then, to animate your characters.
So for
those couple of characters that we've
created back to front, trophy is okay.
We created the trophy, [SOUND] right here.
We made sure we're careful about that.
It has parent level with the animator and
the scripts we're putting there.
And then, it has children underneath
that we can animate, no problem.
So jump in, take on that challenge to
recreate your Lizard and your Cactus.
And I will go through my
solution in the next video.
So when you're done, jump onto the next
video, and I'll see you there soon.